Hi
First, congratulations on producing an excellent resource for the RPi community, you should be
justly proud of yourselves for coming up with such a professional and useful publication.
Now, my comment is with regard to the article on the GPIO by Mike G8NXD in issue 3 - he
warns about the lack of protection offered by the GPIO connectors, rightly so. I feel that it is
important to point out that the GPIO pins only offer 3.3 volt CONTROL signals, and aren't
intended to drive ANY sort of load.
I f you want to connect something external to a GPIO pin, even something like a LED, it ideally
needs to be connected via some sort of buffer, so that the GPIO signal is used just to switch the
buffer, not to take any of the load. This becomes more important as you add extra LEDs,
especially if they are the high-brightness type.
A simple buffer can be made from a cheap NPN transistor and a
couple of resistors, and should only cost a few pence - for
example, plastic-packaged versions of the 2N2222A NPN
transistor may be bought from Ebay for 5p each - a small price to
pay to protect your RPi!
A good article on transistors as switches may be found here
http: //www. rason.org/Projects/transwit/transwit.htm - I 've copied
the following diagram from there, which gives the general idea :
This example shows a 1 2v supply and a 2N3904 transistor, but a
2N2222 can be substituted. For operation from 5v, I 'd use lower
resistor values, 3K3 for R1 , 33K for R2. This will happily switch a
30mA LED, in fact the 2N2222 will handle loads up to 600mA
although you'd need to calculate different values for R1 and R2
to match the load - full details in the quoted article.
Finally, don't take the power from the GPIO pins, use a separate source - however, you will need
to connect the GPIO ground to the buffer ground and, of course, the required GPIO control
signal pin to the buffer input.
Hope this is useful, and saves someone from the expense - and grief - of 'Magic Smoke'!
Best Regards
J Ellerington